# simulations

# EVENT-DATA
This folder contains results from event simulations. It includes subfolders for each event simulated as part of the *production* phase. The subfolder name/number corresponds to the simulated event number. Each event contains model results for the three models (RAS, HMS, ResSim). These simulation model results are separated by the various models and include the following result data:

### hydraulics (includes subfolders for each model-unit)
- **model-unit.p01.hdf** - HEC-RAS model results from simulation, which include event-conditions, geometry, plan data, and result data.
- **model-unit.p01.tmp.hdf** - HEC-RAS input data required for cloud simulation.
- **ras-event-summary.json** - Summary data for many of the hydraulic model components. These include information on the 2D area (cumulative net precipitation, volume accounting error, etc.), boundary condition lines, breaching status, reference line peaks (flows, water surface elevation (WSEL), and velocities), structure variable peaks, and overall model summary data (computation time, number of cores, run time window, solution status, and information if model went unstable).
- **rasoutput.log** - Runtime summary log file generated during RAS simulation. Includes information such as RAS version used for cloud simulation, simulation progress, iteration status, volume accounting error information, water surface elevation error, and other errors/warnings which occurred during the simulation.

### hydrology
- **SST.dss** - Contains timeseries (and paired) data of HMS model output.
- **exported-precip.dss** - Contains gridded precipitation data in dss format. *(This is an optional output file, generated by request to Cloud Compute Lead. It is required to simulate a given cloud simulated event on desktop.)*
- **exported-precip.tmp.hdf** - Contains gridded precipitation data in hdf format required for cloud compute.

### reservoir-operations
- **1h_peaks.csv** - Summarized peak hourly output data from ResSim elements.
- **24h_peaks.csv** - Summarized peak 24-hour output data from ResSim elements.
- **48h_peaks.csv** - Summarized peak 48-hour output data from ResSim elements.
- **72h_peaks.csv** - Summarized peak 72-hour output data from ResSim elements.
- **ffrd.simperiod** - ResSim time window which has been edited to match the HMS time window to facilitate seasonal pool operations.
- **simulation.dss** - Contains timeseries (and paired) data of ResSim model output.

### system-response
- **failure_elevations.json** - Sampled failure/breach elevations for each structure. Includes "location" (e.g. NID or NLD identifier) and "failure_elevation" (elevation at which a breach is triggered).

# LOGS
This folder stores log information on HMS simulations, including simulation times and information on simulation failures.

# STORM-CATALOG
- **storms.csv** - Provides an index of storm event numbers, .dss file paths, x and y coordinates, storm type classification, and a basin path.

# SUMMARY DATA
Contains summarized data from simulated events. Summarized data are divided by model type (i.e. hydraulics, hydrology, reservoir-operations).

- **Hydraulics Summary Data** - summary data is provided for individual model-units. Includes parameters such as max/min flow and WSEL data for model elements like bc-lines, reference-lines, reference-points. Overall hydraulic model information is also included, such as computation time, simulation status (e.g. finished successfully), time at which solution may have gone unstable, and volume accounting information (including cumulative net precipitation and volume accounting error).

- **Hydrology Summary Data** - summary data is provided for for 1-hr, 24-hr, 48-hr, and 72-hr output periods for HMS model elements.

- **Reservoir-Operations Summary Data** - summary data is provided for for 1-hr, 24-hr, 48-hr, and 72-hr output periods for ResSim model elements.

- **Plots** - Contains graphical representation of simulated events. These plots include flow and stage frequency plots, stage-discharge rating curves, volume-accounting-error versus precipitation, and precipitation frequency plots. The plots provide an interactive interface to zoom and query specific events of interest based on their plotting position. Several of the plot types also display observed and/or published data for direct comparison to modeled results.

  - Additionally, **breach plots** are included which summarized breach data for dams and levees. Information is available for individual structures (e.g. specific levees), and also for all structures across many simulated events.

# Additional Files in the *simulations* folder
- **blocks_fixed_length.json** - Defines the relationship of events to synthetic years (i.e. blocks), and the relationship between blocks and realizations.
- **Combined_AMS_Contributing_10yr.csv** - Defines the list of events which contribute to annual maximum series. This is also the list of events to be computed in HEC-RAS.
- **Combined_AMS_Contributing_Explain_10yr.csv** - Provides a rationale for each event which contributes to the annual maximum series.
